
What is git?
Ans: Git is a distributed version control system that helps track changes in source code during software development, allowing multiple developers to work together.

What is the difference between git and GitHub?
Ans: Git is a tool for tracking changes in code. GitHub is a platform for hosting Git repositories online, making collaboration easier.

What is the abbreviation of VCS?
Ans: Version Control System.

What is the abbreviation of SCM?
Ans: Source Code Management.

Write down 5 SCM names?
Ans: Git, Subversion (SVN), Mercurial, Perforce, CVS.

What is Branch?
Ans: A branch is a separate line of development in a Git repository. It allows you to work on features or fixes without affecting the main codebase.

What is tag?
Ans: A tag is a marker in Git that points to a specific commit. It is often used to mark releases or important points in the project’s history.

What is the difference between Branch and Tag?
Ans: A branch is for ongoing development, while a tag is a static reference to a specific commit, usually for releases.

When will we create a branch and when will we create a tag?
Ans: Create a branch when working on a new feature or bug fix. Create a tag when releasing a new version of the software.

What does the “git add” command do?
Ans: It stages changes to be committed to the repository.

What is the command to revert the code from the staging area to the working area?
Ans: git reset HEAD <file>.

What is the git revert command?
Ans: git revert undoes a specific commit by creating a new commit that reverses the changes.

What is the difference between fetch and pull in Git?
Ans: git fetch only downloads changes from the remote repo, while git pull also merges those changes into your local branch.

How to see how many branches are currently available in a Git repo?
Ans: git branch -a.

What is the command to create a branch?
Ans: git branch <branch-name>.

How to switch from one branch to another branch?
Ans: git checkout <branch-name>.

How to create a branch and switch to that branch in one command?
Ans: git checkout -b <branch-name>.

What is the command to delete a branch in the local repo?
Ans: git branch -d <branch-name>.

What is the command to delete a branch in the remote repo?
Ans: git push origin --delete <branch-name>.

What is the branching strategy you are following?
Ans: The most common strategies are Git Flow, GitHub Flow, or Trunk-Based Development.

What is the git stash command?
Ans: git stash temporarily saves your changes without committing them, allowing you to work on something else.

What is git cherry-pick?
Ans: git cherry-pick applies a specific commit from one branch onto another.

What does git rebase do?
Ans: git rebase moves or combines a series of commits to a new base commit, often used to keep a branch up-to-date.

What is PAT?
Ans: Personal Access Token, used for authentication instead of passwords in Git.

What is an SSH key and how to generate it?
Ans: An SSH key is used for secure authentication. Generate it using the command ssh-keygen.

What is the default path for SSH keys?
Ans: ~/.ssh/.

How many files will be generated if you create SSH keys, and what are the file names?
Ans: Two files: id_rsa (private key) and id_rsa.pub (public key).

What are the git best practices to follow while committing code?
Ans: Write clear commit messages, commit small changes, avoid committing secrets, and test your code before committing.

How to change a git commit message after pushing (given that no one pulled from remote)?
Ans: git commit --amend -m "new message" followed by git push --force.

How to rename the branch name?
Ans: git branch -m <new-branch-name>.

What is the command to get the code from a remote Git repo?
Ans: git pull or git clone.

How to check the particular branch from GitHub?
Ans: Go to the GitHub repository, and use the branch dropdown to see all branches.

What is the command to see all git messages in the local repo?
Ans: git log.

How to create the repository in git?
Ans: git init to create a local repo; on GitHub, use the "New repository" button.

How to check if a branch is already merged with any branch or not?
Ans: git branch --merged.

What is SubGit?
Ans: SubGit is a tool to migrate SVN repositories to Git.

In which language is Git developed?
Ans: C.

What is the difference between git merge and git rebase?
Ans: git merge combines changes, creating a new commit; git rebase moves commits to a new base.

What is the difference between git reset and git revert?
Ans: git reset moves the HEAD and optionally the index, while git revert creates a new commit that undoes a previous commit.

What is the git workflow?
Ans: The process of how developers work with Git, including branching, merging, and collaboration practices.

How will you migrate projects from SVN to GitHub?
Ans: Use tools like git svn or SubGit for migration, then push the converted Git repo to GitHub.

What is a merge conflict? Have you resolved merge conflicts?
Ans: A merge conflict occurs when two branches have conflicting changes. Yes, conflicts are resolved by manually editing the affected files.

How to see how many files are committed in one particular commit id?
Ans: git show --stat <commit-id>.

What is git hooks? Can you name some git hooks?
Ans: Git hooks are scripts that run at certain points in the Git workflow. Examples: pre-commit, pre-push, post-merge.

What is .gitignore file?
Ans: A file that specifies files and directories that should be ignored by Git.

What is a git bare and non-bare repository, use cases?
Ans: A bare repo has no working directory and is used for remote sharing. A non-bare repo has a working directory and is used for development.

What is the git command to create archive files?
Ans: git archive.

What is git prune, Mirroring, and git repack commands?
Ans: git prune removes unreachable objects; Mirroring clones a repository exactly; git repack packs unpacked objects into a more efficient format.

What are git objects?
Ans: Git objects are the core elements like blobs, trees, commits, and tags that store data in Git.

What is a repository in GIT?
Ans: A repository (repo) is where your code and its history are stored.

Difference between Git and SVN?
Ans: Git is distributed, allowing multiple local copies; SVN is centralized, with a single central repository.

What are the two types of git authentication?
Ans: SSH and HTTPS.

What are the branches in Git and their purpose?
Ans: Branches represent different lines of development, like feature branches, bug fix branches, etc.

What is the common branching pattern in GIT?
Ans: Git Flow, which includes feature branches, develop, release, and master branches.

What is Pull requests?
Ans: A request to merge changes from one branch into another, usually reviewed before merging.

How to install git in Linux & Windows?
Ans: On Linux, use sudo apt install git; on Windows, download and install from git-scm.com.

How to set up a repository through the command line?
Ans: git init to create a new repository.

How to set up a repository in GitHub and clone it?
Ans: Create a repository on GitHub, then clone it using git clone <repo-url>.

What is git clone command used for?
Ans: It copies a remote repository to your local machine.

What is git config command used for?
Ans: It sets up Git configuration options like username, email, etc.

Git config data is stored in what location?
Ans: Global config: ~/.gitconfig; Local config: .git/config.

Git config global and local files?
Ans: Global applies to all repos, and local applies only to a specific repo.

Content of git config file?
Ans: Settings like user name, email, and other configurations.

git add command’s purpose?
Ans: To stage changes for the next commit.

How to remove/rename files in the local git repo?
Ans: Use git rm to remove and git mv to rename.

What is the git commit command purpose?
Ans: To save your staged changes in the repository.

How to sync local git repo data with GitHub?
Ans: Use git push to send your changes to GitHub.

How to change branches in the local git repo?
Ans: git checkout <branch-name>.

What is the difference between ‘git remote’ and ‘git clone’?
Ans: git remote manages connections to other repositories; git clone copies a repository.

git status?
Ans: Shows the state of the working directory and the staging area.

What is the function of ‘git rm’?
Ans: It removes files from the working directory and the staging area.

What is the function of ‘git checkout’ in git?
Ans: It switches branches or restores files.

What is the use of ‘git log’?
Ans: It shows the commit history.

Explain what is a commit message?
Ans: A commit message describes the changes made in a commit, helping others understand the purpose of the changes.

How to set up GitHub SSH authentication?
Ans: Generate an SSH key with ssh-keygen, add the public key to GitHub, and configure SSH for Git.

What is git webhooks?
Ans: Webhooks are automated messages sent from your repo when something happens, usually to trigger actions like CI/CD pipelines.

Tell me the branching strategies you followed for your project?
Ans: Common strategies include Git Flow, GitHub Flow, or Trunk-Based Development.

What is git rebase?
Ans: Rebase is used to move or combine a series of commits to a new base commit.

What is git stash?
Ans: Git stash temporarily saves your changes without committing them, allowing you to work on something else.

What is the difference between git pull and git fetch?
Ans: git fetch downloads changes without merging, while git pull does both.

What is the difference between "git checkout" and "svn checkout" commands?
Ans: git checkout switches branches in Git, while svn checkout copies a repository from SVN to your local machine.

Advantages of git over SVN?
Ans: Git is distributed, faster, and allows local commits, while SVN is centralized.

Explain about staging area in git?
Ans: The staging area is where changes are stored before committing them to the repository.

How do you check after git merge …where merging is correct or not?
Ans: Use git status and git log to check the results of a merge.

How to create a branch and delete a branch?
Ans: Create: git branch <branch-name>; Delete: git branch -d <branch-name>.

Do you get any conflicts while merging? If yes, how can you resolve conflicts?
Ans: Yes, conflicts occur when changes conflict between branches. Resolve by manually editing the conflicting files and committing the resolution.

How can you implement authentication and authorization in git?
Ans: Use SSH keys, PAT, and repository permissions in platforms like GitHub.

What is the difference between git rebase and git merge?
Ans: Rebase moves or combines commits, while merge creates a new commit that combines changes from two branches.

How to merge the code?
Ans: Use git merge <branch-name>.

Pull request in GitHub and git pull?
Ans: A pull request is a request to merge changes, while git pull fetches and merges changes from a remote repository.

Forking a repository in GitHub?
Ans: Forking creates a copy of someone else’s repository under your account.

Explain about soft and hard reset and their difference?
Ans: git reset --soft moves the HEAD without changing the index, git reset --hard moves HEAD and changes both index and working directory.

What kind of branching and merging you worked on in GIT?
Ans: Examples include feature branching, hotfix branching, and release branching.

What is tagging in GIT and what is the difference between feature branching and tagging?
Ans: Tagging marks specific commits, usually for releases, while feature branching is for ongoing development work.

What are the git commands you use?
Ans: Common commands include git init, git clone, git add, git commit, git push, git pull, git branch, git checkout, and git merge.

What is GIT Stash?
Ans: Git stash temporarily saves changes to clear the working directory.

What is the difference between Git Merge and Git Pull, and Git and SVN?
Ans: Git merge combines branches; Git pull fetches and merges changes from a remote. Git is distributed; SVN is centralized.

